In this current exercise,
we had to do a few things.
And I'm gonna start with
the simplest thing first over here,
which is making sure
the volume is within range.
Of course, you could add a condition
over here and apply this in line.
So, the condition function takes two
arguments, the context and the events.
But we want to make sure that this
event level, and we're only focused
on the event level but we wanna make
sure that that's between 0 and 10.
So you can do something like return
event.level is greater than 0 and
event.level is less than or equal to 10.
And so now, when we run this, Guards,
we see over here that
the volume is currently 5.
So if we send a volume level of,
let's say 6, and
they have it conveniently
over there ready,
then we see that the volume changed to 6,
which is great.
So now if we send something like 600,
That is going to keep it at 6.
Now one question might be,
okay, why do we have to have
a guard here where we could just
constrain the volume in assignVolume?
And you definitely can do that.
Here's the difference, though.
If you allow this transition to be taken,
it's going to basically tell the state
machine, this state is changing.
But if the volume isn't changing at all,
then nothing really is changing, so
you're sort of lying
about the state changing.
So, it's just a more concrete way of us
describing that, no, nothing is changing.
We're not changing the state,
we're not running any actions because
the volume is not within range.
And with things like states.can,
which is that useful method that tells you
if a state is able to accept an event,
that is going to be false if
the volume is out of range.
Because it is going to
check this condition and
tell you nothing's gonna
happen if you send that event.
Whereas if we had this in assignVolume,
then it's gonna say yes,
we do accept that event.
But nothing will happen, but
there's no way of you knowing
that nothing will happen.
So the second part that I want
to go over is using an always or
an eventless transition to automatically
go somewhere when some condition is true.
And so we specify that here using always.
And one trick to prevent infinite loops,
because always functions,
or sorry, always transitions
are always gonna be taken,
is that you want to get in the habit
of adding a condition first.
So, add the condition
that the context.elapsed
is greater than or
equal to context.duration.
And so, when that happens,
we want to go to the paused state.
So now when we run this, and
let's say that right now it is currently
playing and we have a minute 40.
And so, let's say that we have something
that changes the elapsed time.
And that thing is gonna be audio.time,
which is this assignTime here.
So, I'm going to send type AUDIO.TIME and
I'm gonna give it a current time,
which is what we have over here.
That current time is gonna be something
really, really high, like 1000,
just trigger this.
And so, yeah,
you have to add service.send.
And so now you see that it immediately
went to the paused state because
it elapsed or the elapsed time
was greater than the duration.
And so, yeah, that's just a useful way
of combining both transitions and guards.
And using that within always is
a really useful pattern because this,
again, doesn't have to be
dependent on any specific events.
So now if we go to main.final, you could
take a look at all of these implemented.
We have this which is always
going to the paused state when
the elapsed value is greater
than the duration value.
And over here we also have the guards for
LIKE.TOGGLE.
So it's going to check this one first and
say, if the like status is liked,
and we're using the raise
action here again,
we raised the unlike event which is
going to cause us to unlike the song.
And if the like status is unliked,
then we raise the like event, so
we're just going back and forth.
Now, some of you observant ones
might look at this and be like,
isn't this sort of a state
machine on its own?
And the answer is yes, and so
this is also an exercise to the reader.
You could also implement
this as a separate parallel
state once we get to that
in a couple of lessons.
So, the final behavior over here should
be, I'll just show it to you right here.
So yeah, this is the desired behavior,
if you're able to implement it,
where it goes between liked and unliked.
And so also we have the guards preventing
the volume from getting too loud and
also skipping ahead, or yeah,
going to the paused state when the elapsed
time is greater than the current duration.
One of the questions asked was,
when we apply the guards,
so cond, how does that look
in the actual state chart?
So we could visualize that here or here.
So let me just make an example over here,
so const machine = createMachine.
All right, so
let's say that we have a loading state.
And on some event,
we only want to do something
if the condition is true, so loaded.
So we could say cond: 'dataReceived',
sorry,
'dataValid', and target: 'loaded'.
So this is how it's going to look and this
is how it's represented in a state chart.
We have the event here, some event, and
we have the guard here that's
represented using these brackets.
And so this is typical for
state chart notation.
So whenever you see those brackets,
just realize that this event is a guarded
transition or
is part of a guarded transition.